So, here's a function with four arguments.
A, B, C and D.
So, A has no default value.
B, C, and D, all have default values.
And so, when you define a function.
You want it if both specify the names of
the arguments.
And, whether or not any of the arguments
have default values.
So null is a common argument.
Sorry, common value to assign to an
argument.
Which mean, which can
mean a variety of things, but usually
means that, you know, there's nothing
there.
So, one of the key features of the, our
language is what's called Lazy Evaluation.
So Lazy Evaluation is a common model in a
variety of programming languages.
And the way that it works is all of the
arguments to a function are only evaluated
as they're needed.
And so for example, if you take a look at
this function over here.
You can see it takes two arguments a and
b.
But the body of the argument only takes
one thing,
it takes a and then it squares it and then
it
returns it.
And now recall that in a function, the
return value whatever the last expression
is evaluated.
So there's only one expression in this
function.
So that's the last expression.
And so it's the return value.
So if I say f(2).
What happens?
Well, in R what happens is you get 4
because 2 squared is 4.
Now you might be wondering what happens to
B when I call (f).
I never specify what the value
of b is.
And furthermore, b doesn't have a default
value.
And so what happens, what, what happens is
nothing
happens because the function f doesn't
actually use b.
And so the argument is never evaluated.
And so, because it's never evaluated,
there's really no error.
There's nothing that's going wrong here.
Now now you might say there, of course,
well,
the, the function F is kind of poorly
defined.
So why would you give and argument where
that's never actually evaluated?
And that's
a reasonable objection, but in this case,
the
only, the, the function will operate
correctly because
because it's Because the value of 2, is
positionally matched to the arg, to the
argument A.
Which is then squared.
Here's another example of a function
that's
only slightly more complicated than the
previous one.
So this is another function that takes
arguments a and b,
but now what the function does is it
prints out a and
it prints out b.
And so, when I call f of 45, look what
happens.
I get, well I get an error that says in
print b, argument b is missing.
So here, what happened is that it printed
out 45 because 45
was matched to the argument a, and so
there was no error.
Up until the first line of the function,
there was no error occurring.
But then when it got to the second line,
It had to evaluate the val, the argument
b.
And because b had no value assigned to it
and no default
value, then an error had to occur.
So here, but you notice that the error
only occurs after the 45 was printed out.
And so the lazy evaluation applies, but
because
the argument is only evaluate when it's
needed.
Everything else comes before it that's
valid, it will execute it
until it hits the, the part that which
causes an error.
So there's a special argument, in.
In our functions which is the dot, dot,
dot argument.
And it's used to indicate a variable
number of
arguments that can sometimes be passed on
to other functions.
So the three dots are often used when
extending another function and
you don't want to copy the entire argument
list of the original function.
So for example you might want to extend
the plot function
and just to have a little bit of a tweak
or
to change some of the defaults, for
example.
And so for example you might create a
function that's called my plot.
And the my plot will replicate some of the
arguments of the original plot function
like x and y.
But it's going to change the default type
arguments so that instead of creating
circles for points.
You want it to create lines.
So you say type equal to l.
So, but of course the default plot
function has many, many other arguments.
And you want to leave them all ultimately
the same.
And so, what you, what you can do is pass
dot dot dot.
And then though, that can used to, be used
to kind of absorb all the other
arguments in the plot function and then
what
happens is I'll take the dot dot dot and
then pass it down to the original plot
function, and so all those original
arguments can be
preserved then I don't have to retype or
reconstruct all of those arguments in my
extended function.
There is another function.
And sorry, there's another use of the dot
dot dot argument, and it's for
what are called generic functions so that
extra arguments can be passed to the
methods.
So we'll talk a lot about more of
this later when we talk about object
oriented programming.
But the basic idea is that in R there,
there can be special functions called
generic functions which
don't do anything, but what they do is
they
dispatch methods to put, according for
different types of data.
And so the dot dot dot
is used very heavily in this type of
setup.
lastly, so the dot dot dot argument is, is
necessary when the
number of arguments that are passive
functions cannot be known in advance.
So one good example of this usage is in
the paste function.
So the paste function, what is does it
paste, it concatenates a set of strings
together to
create one string or a vector of strings
and it can take a variable number of
arguments.
So, there is no way for the function to
note advance how many arguments it's
going to have to paste together and so the
first argument for paste is actually dot
dot dot.
And therefore you can take a number of
different
R objects that are character vectors and
then, and
then paste something together using a
separator and in
the, which the case the default is the
space.
So there are other arguments to face which
are set to collapse.
But they come after the dot dot dot
argument.
Another function that has the dot dot dot
as the first
argument is cat.
And what cat does similar to paste, it
puts together, it pastes together a number
of strings
then it prints out the, the, the
concatenated
string either to a file or to a console.
So you can see that there are many other
arguments to cat but the first
argument is going to be the set of our
objects that, that are going to be
concatenated.
So, one catch with the dot dot dot
argument is that any arguments
that appear after three dots on the
argument list must be named explicitly.
And furthermore, cannot be partially
matched.
So you cannot, you can't use positional
matching or
partial matching for arguments that come
after the three dots.
because, and this kind of makes sense,
because otherwise
there's no way for r to know whether you
are passing something to the dot dot dot
or
whether you are passing something to a
different argument.
So if I say
in the first example here, where I try to
paste together A
and B, so A and B are going to the dot dot
dot
argument and then I say sep equals colon
and then which means that
I want to paste something together by
separating them into with a colon.
However, if I try to do partial matching
with set,
what happens is that the partial matching
gets ignored, and so,
when, when I say paste a b and then s e
equal to colon, well, the s e is, in
another circumstance
might be partially matched.
But in the pace function, it can't use
partial batching.
So it gets, it just ignores that and just
assumes
that colon is just another string to be
pieced together.
And so then you get the, the string ab:.
So just be careful when you're using
functions
that have dot, dot, dot as an argument.
That any arguments that appear after the
three
dots have to be named explicitly and in
full.